Now we will learn about for each loop in the beginning when I have given introduction, I told you about
for each loop,
Now we are in a position to understand it.
This is used with a collection of elements, for each loop as use with collection of elements.
So collection this element is nothing but an array.
Yes for each loop works with array.
So already we have learned about array and we have written some programs on an array.
How we did those programs, we will see that then, we will learn about for each loop.
Let us see.
See.
I have shown you that for loop as use for accessing all elements of an array.
array name is A and there are six elements now for displaying all the elements I can use for loop
that will iterate through all these elements or scan through all these elements so for loop is a counter
control loop.
So how it works.
Initially i is 0, so I is 0 means i is zero, here A[0] means A[i]  means that is 8.
So first 8 is printed
So what is i.
I is zero, then next I plus plus, I becomes 1 right. now
A[i] means A[1]
A[1] is what?  6.
So I is 1 A[i] is 6 so cout A[i] mean 6 will be printed.
So in this loop I is taking the indices off elements right, array using for loop.
Now the same thing can be access using for each loop.
Let us see this syntax and example, for each loop is written
Same as for we don't write each here just for. then
Integer x.
I'm taking another variable X integer X from A.  X in A we read it  like this X in a.
So if I read the complete statement let me read first then and explain for each X in A for each X in
A means
How many X are there in that this is X next x.
Next Next X.
x.....
So this X will take all the values in an array. now here
If I print cout, X I will print, x.
So let us see how it works now.
First time X, X will be 8, x is 8, so X is a variable in this the first value of array will be copied so
8 will be copied in x.
So when i print x, 8 will be printed, next time inside same x.
This 6 will be copied 6.
Next time they print 6 will be displayed.
See in contrast to this I was in X but not X is element itself.
So this X will get all the values from an array one by one.
So for each value X in A, this is how it works, now what is the benefit.
This way also you can access everything this also you can access everything.
But here you have to mention the size. size of an array is 6.
So you should stop index at the 5 so you should know what is the size of an array, here
There is no size.
There is no size, this is the benefit of 4 each loop.
So this is dependent on the size.
This is not dependent on the size it will access all the elements, as many elements are there.
If there are six elements or 600 elements whatever the number of elements are it will access all of them.
now one more thing,
See here.
If I write plus plus X so First value will be 8 yes 8 then it will print.
Plus plus 8 means 9.
So this will become 9.
What about original value, original value will not change because X is getting a copy of that value
x is a separate variable.
If you're getting a copy of that value, then the next time it will get 6, 6 then ++x
This will become seven and seven is printed but the original value remains six only.
Only so the point I have to show you is that this X will get the copy of a value not if I want to modify
that value x should represent that value directly, you should not have a copy.
X means this X should be this one only.
So if I say plus plus X, so that six should become seven.
So yes for that we can write a reference here.
What is the reference.
Reference will give a name to the same value.
That is another name for same value.
We have a topic called references in point or section.
There you will understand.
I will not explain reference right now.
Just remember this.
If you don't give a reference that is valuable not modified.
If you were a plus plus because if you get a copy of that value but if you write & then that
value is itself called as X when you say ++ X. This will become 7 and that 6 will become 7.
This is one thing no one more benefit of using for each loop I will show you,
See there is an array A, I know A is there but I don't know its data type.
I don't know whether int  or float or double.
I don't know.
So this X, what the data type I should declare, int , float or double, which type. instead of defining
the data type by ourself.
We can simply say auto here so automatically the compiler will make this variable X same as the
data type of this array.
This is more powerful feature of C++ along with the for each loop and one more point about for each loop
is that it will work up on a collection of elements only either it may be an array or vector or any
other thing that we will study later on but it will not work on pointers right.
So right now we don't know pointers, but
Just remember this it will not work up on pointers it will work on collection of values only.
Just remember this that is sufficient later  you will understand this.
So that's it.
This is a for each loop. that's all in this video.